Let's discuss the configuration for basic e-commerce tracking.
First, you must turn on e-commerce reporting in your GA property at the view level.
For the basic e-commerce configuration using GTM you need to configure
your Universal Analytics tag settings properly and make sure
that e-commerce reporting is turned on in at least one view in your property.
Create a transaction tag type and set the fields to
capture and send required data later variables for your e-commerce data when present.
You can follow the developer reference documents
specifically for basic e-commerce tracking.
Just keep in mind though,
a required field for e-commerce tracking is going to be a transaction ID,
and for product information is going to be either a product ID or product name.
Other than transaction ID and product ID,
the other fields are going to be optional,
the recommended if available.
With the GTM implementation,
you're going to need to update your confirmation page code to output
some data layer data with the transaction and order information.
Work with your developer to set these data layer variables.
Here, I've highlighted the transaction information in
pink and again the required field is transaction ID.
If you have a transaction affiliation that is a store,
the transaction total, the transaction tax,
shipping, and then the individual product level data including skew,
name, category, price, and quantity.
Again, skew or a product name or product ID is a required field.
To reiterate, most of these data points are not required,
but if you have all of these pieces of data available,
we recommend that you should pass all of them in.
As discussed in course one,
product scope custom dimensions provide the opportunity to pass
any additional product descriptors such as color, size or model.
It will give you and reporting more data, and of course,
if you want product level revenue you're going to want to include the price.